Type: #type/library/book  
Area: #area/life   
Keywords: #keyword/football 
Status: #status 
Date Created: 15-07-2023
___
## Highlights
- PSG have evolved like no club before. They have done so, according to the report, by: developing club facilities; prioritising academy development; creating a favourable style of play; harnessing the power of media; and investing in famous players.
- An amateur club in western Paris, CO Les Unis, tends to capitalise on the negligence of PSG, despite being in the sixth tier of French football. They attracted and developed Patrice Evra, Yaya Sanogo and Thierry Henry before professional academies took them elsewhere.
- Fundamentally, for possession football to be successful, the club decided after the Barça loss, players within the team structure needed to have better decision-making at all times. They had to know who to pass to, when, for what purpose, the weight of pass and the angle. They also had to see the bigger picture: to move the opponents in order to create space elsewhere to exploit.
- Giulianotti broke the identity of the football ‘spectator’ into four different categories, describing the modes of interest each spectator type has in his or her desired club. The ‘traditional’ spectator has the deepest emotional investment in the football club, having a relationship resembling one that would be had with a family member. The second type of spectator is the ‘follower’ who is not defined by an emotional bond to a particular club but, instead, by keeping abreast of developments among clubs and football people in which he or she has a favourable interest. The third spectator type is the consumer ‘fan’. Not generally localised to a football club, the ‘fan’ shows identification with a club and its players through the consumption of related products, authenticating his or her sense of belonging. The final form of spectator, and perhaps the most important, is the ‘flâneur’.
- Saint-Étienne director Damien Comolli substantiated the issue in 2011 at the time of the takeover: ‘You have to ask is the French league competitive enough to give PSG a sufficient challenge, for them to compete in the Champions League?’xi
- Gab Marcotti wrote how we’re in an era of dominance for the one-percenters ‘and, frankly, that’s not going to change, barring some kind of deep regulatory overhaul. The overwhelming power of [super-clubs] is only going to grow,’
- On the walls of the factories on the edge of the city, graffiti writes ‘3 + 4 = 1’, a sum proclaiming that the three regions in France (Lapurdi, Nafarroa Beherea and Zuberoa) and the four in Spain (Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa, Nafarroa Garaia and Araba) equal one Basque Country.
- British influence led Athletic to play a style of football that mixed local flair with John Bull grit, known locally as la furia or ‘the rage’.
- It was, as one can imagine, a physical style of football with lofted passes up to a target-man striker (Urzaiz, Llorente, Aduriz).
- According to Frade, every action in football, whether it be controlling the ball or passing, requires: an understanding of the context of the game (tactical); the ability to perform the action (technical); a motor movement (physical); and concentration (mental).
- ‘For me, the most important aspect in my teams is to have a game model, a set of principles that provide organisation,’ Mourinho stated. ‘Therefore, since the first day of training, our attention is dictated to that.’ When he arrived at Porto, Mourinho’s objective was to create a way of playing based upon several factors: the capabilities of the players already at the club; the desire of the board; the culture of the club; the demands of the fans; and the culture of the country and opposition teams. Once a game model is decided upon and the players are selected, the coach can then begin to tactically periodise training.
- As complex as TP seems, it can be broken down simply to flow in the following order: Identify a game model > produce match-related training exercises > incorporate the transitions > consider the four factors.
- ‘We have internal and external scouts, who are divided into several levels of observation, which allows a player to be viewed by several people,’ explained club director Antonio Henrique. ‘They work with a shadow team, which is a set of players who are identified from various leagues capable of being hired by Porto.’
- Mourinho introduced the Cruyffian philosophy of resting on the ball to Portuguese football (keep possession when winning a match to exert minimal amounts of physical effort, whilst frustrating the opposition).
- It is mostly forgotten that in his first season at the club, Porto played an attacking 4-3-3. He and the team are remembered elsewhere for the pragmatic 4-4-2 diamond played on European nights, but domestically they were expansive. The diamond was only incorporated when, as the tempo became reduced, his players could appear between the lines of the opposition’s defence with greater ease.
- ‘Every month we produce an ideal XI for each league. Then in December we start watching players who appeared regularly in different contexts – home, away, international – to build the broadest possible profile,’ Sevilla director Monchi explained.
- It aligns with Carol Dweck’s Mindset research and the differences between having a ‘fixed’ or ‘growth’ mindset. In short, she believes some people are fixed in their outlook and view effort as futile. Others, however, have a growth mindset and seek to overcome predetermined views of what is achievable.40 ‘In a growth mindset students understand that their talents and abilities can be developed through effort, good teaching and persistence,’ she explained.
- 1. A young boy joins the academy for the first time aged eight or nine. 2. He is taught a style of football that is synchronised from foundation up to older ages. 3. When he signs a professional contract aged 17 he is placed into a ‘B’ team, a stepping stone from youth to senior football with competitive demands. 4. From the B team, he joins the first team squad. The first team play the same style as the B team and academy, making his transition easier.
- The first team style of football is the same as that of the national team. 6. He joins the national team and is fully aware of his roles and requirements in the formation and has mastered his position on the pitch. 7. The national team is typically made up of players he has played alongside at club level for many years. They understand how each other play through non-verbal communication.41
- Rinus Michels explained ‘team-building’ to be more than social cohesion, but a process of developing a clear methodology or game model. In Britain, because of various agendas, a flowing methodology is not always evident.
- Mateschitz said. ‘Time and natural growth of the club is more important than an astronomical budget and dazzling names.’liii
- ‘The difference between us and other clubs is that in the first place when we sign or scout players we are fishing in a small pond, as we are only interested in players aged between 17 and 23. Our transfer policy is to sign players who are only on to maybe their second contract in their lives and they want to develop their career step by step, and if you get the right offer you have to let them go and have other players in the pipeline.’44
- Statistics analysed include successful forward passes, final third entries, aerial duels won, scoring percentages and a variety of other core position-specific stats that identify striving talents.
- Monchi took over the role in 2000 as the club flirted with debt and relegation. He explained his process: ‘Sixteen people cover a series of leagues. For the first five months, we watch a lot of football but with no particular aim: we’re just accumulating data. Every month we produce an ideal XI for each league. Then, in December, we start watching players who appeared regularly in different contexts – home, away, international – to build the broadest possible profile.’ Monchi builds a database of over 200 potential targets each season. ‘If a player says, “Chelsea want me,” I say: “What are you talking to me for, then?” But if Swansea or Spurs want you, let’s talk.’
- There are no set rules for investing in potential, but more parameters that European clubs work within. They aspire to create an environment ‘conducive to players succeeding and improving’, according to Sevilla’s Monchi. The examples mentioned highlight such boundaries, and show the methods through which clubs live organically at various levels. They: • Avoid buying players over the age of 26. Younger talents hold a greater degree of potential and value (Porto and Benfica). • Do not chase players in ‘spotlight’ form but instead identify obscure names (Udinese). • Do not purchase players from the same league who command high wages (Heerenveen). • Do not purchase players from higher leagues, unless they are unestablished and unwanted (Sevilla and Udinese). • Identify the striving talents playing in less valuable leagues. No matter the level, there is always a league below.
- Alter the mindset and understanding of success, from winning trophies to making capital gains.
- If the success of a football team was a reflection of the beauty of its surroundings then Austria Vienna would be one of the best teams in the world, contesting a ‘beauty-league’ with IFK Göteborg, Bologna, OGC Nice, Club Brugge, FC Thun, MVV Maastricht and a team of whatever part-time bakers-come-footballers San Marino could find to play.
- Austria Vienna taught him, and indeed all other youth graduates, to play everywhere, including in goal: ‘It is our philosophy to not create just one position,’ Muhr said. ‘With the little ones, we do not have goalkeepers; there has to be a soccer player in goal because it is important that this position can play football.’
- Arsène Wenger at Monaco converted a young Lilian Thuram from midfielder to defender and did the opposite to Emmanuel Petit – both players would win the World Cup in their new positions.
- that a coherent philosophy is crucial in the modern game.
- One of van der Kraan’s favourite books is The Social Animal by David Brooks on social mobility and ambition; the theme of developing hunger in children particularly resonant. ‘Much of life is about failure, whether we acknowledge it or not, and your destiny is profoundly shaped by how effectively you learn from and adapt to failure,’ Brooks writes in it.
- Compressing space and making the pitch seem small when Ajax did not have the ball, before dispersing and making the pitch as wide and long as possible when they did, were two principles of play – both of which remain part of the academy syllabus today.
- ‘It isn’t the man on the ball who decides where the ball goes, but the players without the ball. Their running actions determine the next pass.
- His Ajax team played a 3-4-3 with three defenders, four midfielders, two out-and-out wingers and a striker. 4-4-2 had grown in popularity on the continent as a formation that stretched the pitch vertically and horizontally, so Cruyff attempted to counter it. ‘If you have four men defending two strikers, you only have six against eight in the middle of the field: there’s no way you can win that battle. We had to put a defender further forward.’lxxvi Maintaining possession was central to Cruyff’s version of Total Football of the late 80s.77
- In training, van Gaal promoted communication. He encouraged his players to question him and each other constantly. It culminated in one of football’s greatest triumphs, the 1995 European Cup win over AC Milan. That victory in Vienna allowed Kormelink and Seeverens to review the tactical and team-building philosophy van Gaal installed at Ajax, which embraced aspects of Michels and Cruyff and still applies to many parts of the club’s modern approach: 1. He created a game model and encouraged the players to invest in it. 2. He upheld high levels of discipline in training, as well as through personal standards. 3. The formation could be adapted depending on the opponent, but the style remained constant. 4. Every player had a role within the structure to follow. 5. The structure allowed for triangular passing combinations to be played so possession could be recycled. 6. They pressed high and fast to deny the opposition success in transition. 7. They were patient and waited for the right pass to present itself. 8. He valued the intangibles of young academy footballers.
- ‘We want to have the best young team in Europe,’ van der Sar later said as marketing director. For every position, Ajax have a list of youngsters ready to step up. Every
- Adam Wells’ book Football & Chess: Tactics, Strategy, Beauty,
