Type: #type/library/book  
Area: #area/work  
Keywords: #keyword/relationships  
Status: #status/un-processed  
Date Created: 15-07-2023
___
## Highlights
- Modern work requires an ability to effectively harness emotion—but most of us have never learned how to do this in our professional lives.
- By ignoring our feelings at work, we overlook important data and risk making preventable mistakes. We send emails that cause unnecessary anxiety, we fail to find work meaningful, and we burn out.
- emotional intelligence (EQ), the ability to recognize and understand both how you and how those around you feel.
- real achievement at work requires going one step beyond emotional intelligence: you need to learn to be reasonably emotional. This means matching how you communicate your feelings to the specific situation. To do that, you need emotional fluency—the capacity to productively sense emotion, and to know how and when to translate what you feel into healthy action.
- “Be less passionate about your job” doesn’t mean “stop caring about work.” It means care more about yourself. It means carve out time for the people you love, for exercise, and for a guilt-free vacation. It means remind yourself that few people look back at their lives and wish they had stayed at the office until 10:00 P.M.
- advances in technology have blurred the lines between our personal and professional lives. We’re constantly accessible, which means we feel constantly accountable.
- But the more we tie who we are to what we do, the more we emotionally attach to our jobs. We put constant pressure on ourselves to always be our best and then feel exhausted when we fail to live up to this unrealistic standard. And when we depend on our bosses for validation, the smallest bit of critical feedback starts to feel like a rejection of our entire selves.
- “People who accept these emotions without judging or trying to change them are able to cope with their stress more successfully.”
- When you’re upset, it feels good to run to someone in your support network, the group of people who will immediately take your side (your mom or your best friend, for example). But if you talk to only these people, you sabotage your ability to learn from or fix the problem. Make sure you also confide in your challenge network, the people who will tell you hard truths and push you to resolve the issue.
- “Working on the right thing is probably more important than working hard,” notes Flickr cofounder Caterina Fake.
- You can learn to bring your mind back to the present and stop ruminating. The first step to feeling better is to notice your cognitive distortions, or the dirty tricks your brain plays on you.
- Psychologist Martin Seligman identified the “three Ps” we tend to focus on after a negative event: Personalization: thinking that the event is all your fault Pervasiveness: thinking that the event is going to ruin every aspect of your life Permanence: thinking you are going to feel like this (e.g., bad) forever
- “Nothing diminishes anxiety faster than action,” notes the American painter and writer Walter Anderson.
- Psychologist Daniel Kahneman recommends keeping a decision journal: when you’re faced with a choice, write down exactly what you expect to happen and why that scenario makes you feel eager. This will help you evaluate if your anticipation was accurate—and give you feedback on how to treat your emotions when you make future decisions.
- you: If you’re asking for more money (either for your starting salary in a new job or for a raise at your existing job), try this
- magic line: “I don’t want my salary to be a distraction to me while I’m in this role.”
- Figure out your decision-making tendency. Which of the following better describes you? You like to gather as much information about your options as you can before picking one. Even if you find something that meets your requirements, you feel compelled to keep looking just in case. You want to pick the best possible option. You have a general idea of what you want, and once you find a reasonably suitable option, you pick it and move on. “Good enough,” you think. If you picked 1, you’re a maximizer. If you picked 2, you’re a satisficer.
- Maximizers, here are some strategies to help you get unstuck: Narrow down your choices tournament-style: Divide your options into equal piles (for example, if you have six options, make three piles of two). Pick the best option from each pile. Put the winners into a new pile. Pick the best option from the pile of winners.
- Google discovered this same elusive emotional ingredient in 2012, when a group of researchers analyzed nearly two hundred teams to figure out why some teams succeed where others fail. The results were surprising: individual team members’ tenure, seniority, and extraversion didn’t seem to affect team performance. “We had lots of data, but there was nothing showing that a mix of specific personality types or skills or backgrounds made any difference,” recalled Abeer Dubey, a manager in Google’s People Analytics division. “The ‘who’ part of the equation didn’t seem to matter.” What mattered was the “how”: the best teams were those whose members respected one another’s ideas. People on
- these teams had psychological safety: they felt they could suggest ideas, admit mistakes, and take risks without being embarrassed by the group
- Success depends on psychological safety.
- MIT researchers who studied team performance came to the same conclusion: simply grouping smart people together doesn’t guarantee a smart team. Online and off, the best teams discuss ideas frequently, do not let one person dominate the conversation, and are sensitive to one another’s feelings.
- “I’ve found that whenever you ask a question, the first response you get is usually not the answer,” says Roshi Givechi, a former partner at IDEO. Roshi recommends asking team members to “say more about that” and advises suggestions be given only after a “scaffolding of thoughtfulness” has been established.
- Ask clarifying questions (to make it okay for others to do the same). When team members use acronyms or jargon, ask them to explain (and avoid using them yourself). Although you may initially worry about how you’ll be perceived for asking clarifying questions, remember you’re modeling this behavior for others, and together you can all increase psychological safety.
- Many of the CEOs interviewed by New York Times columnist Adam Bryant create “user manuals” or “how to work with me” guides to make collaboration easier.
- Adam recommends blocking off an hour to answer the questions below. Ideally, invite a neutral facilitator to guide discussion. WHAT EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT YOU: 1. What are some honest, unfiltered things about you? 2. What drives you nuts? 3. What are your quirks?
- What qualities do you particularly value in people who work with you? 5. What are some things that people might misunderstand about you that you should clarify? HOW TO WORK WITH YOU: 1. What’s the best way to communicate with you? 2. What hours do we want to work together? Where and how do we want to work? (Same room, what kinds of meetings, what kinds of file sharing?) 3. What are our goals for this team? What are our concerns about this team? 4. How will we make decisions? What types of decisions need consensus? How will we deal with conflict? 5. How do we want to give and receive feedback? (One-on-one, in a group, informally, or during a specified time each week—like at a retrospective?)
- Conduct premortems. Set aside half an hour at the outset of a project and have team members list everything they fear might go wrong. This allows the team to fully understand and address potential risks. “People
- “Every human will frustrate, anger, annoy, madden and disappoint us,” writes philosopher Alain de Botton. “And we will (without any malice) do the same to them.” Communication is one of the most powerful tools we have to effect change.
- Effective communication depends on our ability to talk about emotions without getting emotional.
- To prevent the discussion from devolving, wait until you can do the following: Label your feelings. (“I’m hurt.”) Understand where those feelings are coming from. (“I’m hurt I wasn’t included on the email about Evan’s birthday celebration.”) Feel calm enough to hear the other person out. A good rule of thumb is, if you think you have all the facts (“You didn’t CC me
- because you hate me”), you’re not ready to have a difficult conversation.
- three rules for giving feedback that makes the receiver feel good (or at least less bad): (1) focus on specific behavior, (2) make it about bridging the gap, and (3) remember: how you say it matters.
- Wharton professor Cade Massey recommends positioning feedback as bridging the gap: identify where you want the other person to be, give them clear advice on how to get there, and (most importantly) emphasize that you believe they have the ability to bridge that gap.
- “The single biggest problem in communication is the illusion that it has taken place,” writes playwright George Bernard Shaw.
- After surveying almost eighty thousand people, researcher Marcus Buckingham’s biggest insight was, “Average managers play checkers, while great managers play chess.” In checkers, every piece is the same. But winning a game of chess requires you to understand each piece’s strengths and weaknesses.
- “The call of leadership isn’t just to be real. It’s also to be able to manage and soothe your own anxieties, so that you don’t infect others.”
- The best leaders are able to hit a pause button when they become emotional.
